---
layout: default
title: The Bleeding Edge
nav_order: 8
last_modified_date: Tue Dec 5 22:58:20 2017 
---

# Bleeding Edge

### Could you contribute to SWIG?

SWIG is an all volunteer project which has been publicly available since
1996 and is only as good as it is because of free software
collaboration. There are many warts though and so we are always looking
for people to help out with various aspects of SWIG development. This
can be anything from improving functionality in the SWIG source code or
typemaps to writing documentation.

-   Send email to the [swig-devel](mail.html) (SWIG Developers) mailing
    list if you are interested in getting involved in development. We\'d
    love to hear some background knowledge and information about
    yourself and we can help you getting started.

### SWIG Source

Development versions of SWIG are available through a
[Git](http://git-scm.com/) repository hosted at
[Github](https://github.com/swig/swig). There is also a
[Subversion](http://subversion.apache.org/) (SVN) interface provided by
Github.

### Disclaimer

The Git release represents work in progress and is not guaranteed to
compile on your machine or be functional in any manner. However, it is
often in better shape than the last official release!

### Required Tools

To compile SWIG from the raw source available from Git, you will need
the following tools:

-   Either Git or Subversion
-   Autoconf 2.58 or higher
-   Automake 1.7.2 or higher
-   A working C and C++ compiler.
-   yacc or bison (to compile the SWIG parser).
-   libpcre (regular expressions library dependency)

It is important to note that the Git repository does not include the C++
code generated by yacc nor the files produced by Autoconf or Automake or
the documentation that is generated. These are however included in a
normal release. Thus, you will have to install the above tools on your
machine for everything to work.

### To build the latest version

There is [generic Git help](https://help.github.com/) available from
Github, but the steps below should be all you need to get going quickly.
However, Windows users should also look at the [Building swig.exe on
Windows](Doc2.0/Windows.html#Windows_swig_exe).

1.  The latest development (master) version of SWIG can be retrieved
    using:

         $ git clone https://github.com/swig/swig.git
            

    You can also use Github as if it was a Subversion server, see
    [Collaborating on GitHub with
    Subversion](https://github.com/blog/1178-collaborating-on-github-with-subversion).
    The following should get you going with the latest:

         $ svn checkout https://github.com/swig/swig/trunk swig
            

2.  To build SWIG, follow the steps below and replace `/some/directory`
    with a directory that you have permission to write to:

         $ cd swig
            $ ./autogen.sh
            $ ./configure --prefix=/some/directory
            $ make
            $ make install
            

3.  To check the build, run the tests:

         $ make -k check 

    This could take up to an hour or longer. If you are interested in a
    particular language, just check the examples and test-suite for that
    language. For example, the Python tests:

         $ make check-python-examples
            $ make check-python-test-suite
            

    More details on the [SWIG
    test-suite](Doc2.0/Extending.html#Extending_test_suite) are
    available.

**Note:** The Git repository is read-only so the system will not accept
code modifications unless you are a registered SWIG developer. If you
would like to see your modifications in the official SWIG distribution,
you can [fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo) the
repository and send a [pull
request](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests) or submit
a [patch](bugs.html) to the patch tracker.

### Build Issues

Here are some guidelines should you be experiencing problems building
SWIG from Git.

1.  Check that you have a complete update from the SWIG Git repository.
    A fresh checkout from Git often solves build problems.
2.  Make sure you have run `./autogen.sh` and `./configure`. Both these
    steps will be necessary if you have a fresh Git checkout or if the
    build files in the repository have changed since a previous update.
3.  Check that the appropriate versions of your autotools (Autoconf and
    Automake) are installed properly. The autotools are in a state of
    flux and there are backward compatibility issues which are solved in
    different ways on different operating systems.
4.  Check that all the autotool bootstrap programs which are executed
    when running `./autogen.sh` are up to date and match your installed
    autotool versions. For example `aclocal --version` should report a
    matching version of Automake or Autoconf, something like \"aclocal
    (GNU automake) 1.7.6\".

If you are still having problems, send an email to the
[swig-devel](mail.html) mailing list.
